Business Requirements

Product Description:

A messaging application that focuses on creating new connections with people via IM, maintaining existing connections with friends with mutual interests via GPS, while allowing the user to post statuses and pictures of their daily lives. Our product is a combination of several existing messaging/social media apps such as Facebook Messenger and SnapChat.


Primary Market Research:

Through the survey given out to social media users of differing age groups that consisted of age demographics, preferred features among different age gaps, communication through instant messaging, and social media that uses GPS location as one of its features, the results can be analyzed and summarized.

With the results found, they can be summarized as:

Age Demographics


41% of users are of the age 13 - 17


45% of users are of the age 18 - 25


14% of users are of the age 26 - older

Preferred Features Among Different Age Gaps


Teenagers prefer entertainment, messaging, and posting statuses


Young adults prefer messaging and posting statuses


Older adults prefer news and messages

Communication Through Instant Messaging


Teenagers tend to message friends a lot


Young adults prefer to message friends, families, and, in some occasions, connections (strangers)


Older adults tend to message families a lot

Social Media That Uses GPS Location As One Of Its Features


Teenagers doesn’t know much about the GPS features on social media


Young adults prefer making new connections and friends through GPS related social media


Similar to teenagers, older adults don’t know much about the GPS features on social media

Secondary Market Research

Competitors

There are several competitors in the market today. The main competitors are SnapChat, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, LinkedIn, WhatsApp, and Twitter.

Players

There are many players in the market for this kind of product. They range from competitors, customers, and influencers.


Instant Messaging (IM)

IM allows users to maintain contact with friends and family members regardless of location via visual/textual messages, and allows real-time-talk with an easy-to-read record of user-to-user/user-to-group message history


There are over 1.6 billion monthly active users of mobile messenger apps that use IM. Of those 1.6 billion active users, there are about 186 million actives users that uses IM that can send a visual message.


On average, approximately 80% of US internet users between the ages of 18-65 use communication platforms with IM functionality such as Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, SnapChat, etc.


Of those 80% of US internet users between the ages of 18 - 65, the majority age group spans between ages 13 - 29 years old.


Approximately 2 billion mobile phone messaging app users worldwide from 2018 show projected growth of 3 billion users by 2023 for apps that use IM.


As of July 2019, there is a growth market for apps that use IM, demonstrating the necessity and importance of its implementation in communication platforms, spanning the next 5 - 10 years.


Growing demand for communication and social media platforms expected to drive market for products utilizing IM.


Messaging apps have the most users 



Preferred Mediums of Communication Between Friends


75% of teenagers own cell phones, and 25% use them for social media, 54% for texting and 24% for instant messaging (Hinduja & Patchin, 2007).


Social media sites provide children with the opportunity to stay connected to friends and family, make new friends, share pictures and exchange ideas.


Facebook and other similar sites allow students to gather outside of school and exchange ideas about assignments or collaborate on group projects (Borja, 2005).

88% of Americans ages 18-29 use social media

In 2015, the number of worldwide Instant Messaging (IM) accounts, not including Mobile Messaging, totals over 3.2 billion. This figure is expected to grow at an average annual rate of about 4% over the next four years, and reach over 3.8 billion by the end of 2019. 

FB messenger is the 2nd highest in social media platform penetration





Global Positioning System (GPS)


The key factors contributing to the growth of the global GPS market include increasing demand of GPS enabled devices, rising adoption of GPS technology in transportation and logistics, a growing number of a multifunctional mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet, and low cost and easy integration into other technologies


Electronic data retention and privacy concerns serve as a barrier to the growth of the market.


North America is estimated to hold a dominant position in the global GPS market attributed to the increasing demand for GPS enabled devices and rising adoption of GPS technology in transportation and logistics.


Some of the key players operating in the global GPS market include Google Inc., MiTAC International Corp., Garmin Ltd., Starcom Systems Ltd., and others


As the manner of primary data collection, the collection of GPS data is more advantage than other methods of data collection.


According to market survey, 900 million mobile phones that incorporated GPS were sold globally in 2012.


For example, it could track people's movement thus obtaining accurate information on their everyday habits, including shopping habits, driving habits and so on


Market Research Future (MRFR) has published a report asserting that the global GPS Tracking Device System Industry is marked to expand remarkably at a CAGR of 11.9% during the forecast period of 2017-2023 and reach the market valuation of USD 2.53 Bn by the end of the forecast period.
                  	         
Making Friends as Adults
62% of adults in the U.S. have 2 - 5 close friends


1 in 5 adults feel lonely


42% of adults make their friends in the workplace


35% of adults meet their closest friends through other friends


29% of adults meet their friends in their neighborhood


Most people become friends with those who are like them


81% of teens (13-19) interact with those who do not share the same beliefs


76% of teens believe that their friends contribute to their sense of self more than their family


86% of teens meet their friends in class at school 


Sources

https://www.smartinsights.com/social-media-marketing/social-media-strategy/new-global-social-media-research/

https://newyorkbehavioralhealth.com/the-impact-of-social-media-use-on-social-skills
https://www.reuters.com/brandfeatures/venture-capital/article?id=99884
https://mpk732t12016clusterb.wordpress.com/2016/04/18/does-gps-technology-bring-value-on-marketing-research/
https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/gps-market-global-industry-analysis-size-share-growth-trends-and-forecast-2019---2023-2019-02-25
https://www.barna.com/research/friends-loneliness/

Authors/Contributors
Jamil Khan, Benjamin Seo, Christine Duong, Brandon Le, John Him, Chaz Del Praro
